# Project01_ML
## Who I got help from
- ### I got help from my sci-learn for helping me to learn sklearn, I also used chatgpt and Flint to problem solve through problems that I encountered. One example of these such problems would be what possible models are there and what is the benefit to each of them, and then also learning skew and standard deviation for the quantile regressor. I also got my data from nfl savnt from this link https://nflsavant.com/about.php
## How to run the program
- ### Since there is no input of text into the function, you can either input the starting conditions of the drive into the simulation file at the method in the bottom, though I found that using the jupyter notebook to just run it is easier. To choose the teams, you will have to use the team's three letter abbreviation.(Ex. CAR for the carolina panthers)
## What is the next step
- ### Beyond this project I want to make the singular drives into and actual full game that will allow me to get a winner. and as such by running many of those simulations, I will be able to find the percentage of one team winning opposed to another based on how many times they won out of the simulations.
## What does this program do
1. ### The first step is a logistic clssifier, which predicts whether the play is a run as a percentage and then a random float determines which one it is based on the given percentages.
2. ### After this the Predicted_Yards class predicts a weighted random yardage using a quantile regressor(uses 10th, 50th, and 90th percentile) to create a model to predict the amount of yards gained with some degree of randomness based on different aspects of the situation including the down, how many yards until a first down, the amount of time left in the game, what kind of play it is, and what yardline the offense is on. The model also uses standard deviation and skew to make the model more accurate to the reality of football.
3. ### Next, a linear model creates a value of the predicted yards gained based on the offense/deffense based on different aspects of the situation including the down, how many yards until a first down, the amount of time left in the game, what kind of play it is, and what yardline the offense is on.
4. ### The Drive class then creates the play by using all of the models described above and creating a predicted play based on the models above and their results. Additionally, it checks for whether a touchdown would have been scored, a first down achived, or if it is fourth down wether the team kicks a field goal or punts. The class then returns the current situation to allow for the method to be called again. It additionally prints out a short description of what happened on the play.
5. ### Finally, the Simulation class or the jupyter notebook, either works, recieves the dataset and configures it to match the neccesities of the program, and then calls the play until it recives the array that designates that the drive is over in which it then terminates. 
